CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Tanzu Community Edition

First of all, thank you for investing your time in contributing to Tanzu Community Edition (TCE).
These guidelines will help you get started. Please note that we require [DCO sign off](#dco-sign-off) for all commits.

## Building from source

This section describes how to build TCE from source. Build and test is driven by our [Makefile](Makefile).
Commands meant to be used directly by developers feature help text. You can see this by running `make help`.

### Fetch the source

```shell
git clone https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/tce
```

### Building the CLI and all plugins from source

TCE consists of the `tanzu` CLI and multiple CLI plugins that facilitate functionality from cluster management to authentication.
The CLI and some of its plugins live in different repositories. To build the CLI and all plugins, including those
hosted in the TCE repository, run the following.

```shell
make build-all
```

After build and install, you'll see an output similar to the following.

```text
[COMPLETE] installed plugins at /home/josh/.local/share/tanzu-cli/. These plugins will be automatically detected by tanzu CLI.

[COMPLETE] installed tanzu CLI at /home/josh/bin/tanzu. Move this binary to a location in your path!
```

As seen in the message above, you can now move `tanzu` from the location it was installed into a location in your path (such as `/usr/local/bin`).
Plugins are automatically installed in the correctly location, so when calling `tanzu`, the plugins functionality is picked up automatically.

### Building only TCE-specific plugins from source

If you already have `tanzu` CLI installed and wish to only compile and install TCE-specific plugins, run the following.

```shell
make build-plugin
```

After build and install, you'll see an output similar to the following.

```text
[COMPLETE] installed TCE-specific plugins at /home/josh/.local/share/tanzu-cli/. These plugins will be automatically detected by your tanzu CLI.
```

Now that the TCE-specifc plugins are installed on your system, you will see their command when running `tanzu`.

### Running TCE-specific plugin tests

To run tests on TCE-specific CLU plugins, run the following.

```shell
make test-plugins
```

## Contribution workflow

This section describes the process for contributing a bug fix or new feature.

### Before you submit a pull request

This project operates according to the _talk, then code_ rule.
If you plan to submit a pull request for anything more than a typo or obvious bug fix, first you _should_ [raise an issue][new-issue] to discuss your proposal, before submitting any code.

Depending on the size of the feature you may be expected to first write a design proposal. Follow the [Proposal Process](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/tce/blob/master/GOVERNANCE.md#proposal-process) documented in TCE's Governance.

### Commit message and PR guidelines

- Have a short subject on the first line and a body.
- Use the imperative mood (ie "If applied, this commit will (subject)" should make sense).
- There must be a DCO line ("Signed-off-by: Amanda Katona <akatona@vmware.com>"), see [DCO Sign Off](#dco-sign-off) below.
- Put a summary of the main area affected by the commit at the start,
with a colon as delimiter. For example 'docs:', 'extensions/(extensionname):', 'design:' or something similar.
- Do not merge commits that don't relate to the affected issue (e.g. "Updating from PR comments", etc). Should
the need to cherrypick a commit or rollback arise, it should be clear what a specific commit's purpose is.
- If the main branch has moved on, you'll need to rebase before we can merge,
so merging upstream main or rebasing from upstream before opening your
PR will probably save you some time.

Pull requests *must* include a `Fixes #NNNN` or `Updates #NNNN` comment.
Remember that `Fixes` will close the associated issue, and `Updates` will link the PR to it.

#### Sample commit message

```text
extensions/extenzi: Add quux functions

To implement the quux functions from #xxyyz, we need to
flottivate the crosp, then ensure that the orping is
appred.

Fixes #xxyyz

Signed-off-by: Your Name <you@youremail.com>
```

### Merging commits

Maintainers should prefer to merge pull requests with the [Squash and merge](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-request-merges#squash-and-merge-your-pull-request-commits) option.
This option is preferred for a number of reasons.
First, it causes GitHub to insert the pull request number in the commit subject which makes it easier to track which PR changes landed in.
Second, it gives maintainers an opportunity to edit the commit message to conform to TCE standards and general [good practice](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/).
Finally, a one-to-one correspondence between pull requests and commits makes it easier to manage reverting changes and increases the reliability of bisecting the tree (since CI runs at a pull request granularity).

At a maintainer's discretion, pull requests with multiple commits can be merged with the [Create a merge commit](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-request-merges) option.
Merging pull requests with multiple commits can make sense in cases where a change involves code generation or mechanical changes that can be cleanly separated from semantic changes.
The maintainer should review commit messages for each commit and make sure that each commit builds and passes tests.

### Pre commit CI

Before a change is submitted it should pass all the pre commit CI jobs.
If there are unrelated test failures the change can be merged so long as a reference to an issue that tracks the test failures is provided.

## DCO Sign off

All authors to the project retain copyright to their work. However, to ensure
that they are only submitting work that they have rights to, we are requiring
everyone to acknowledge this by signing their work.

Since this signature indicates your rights to the contribution and
certifies the statements below, it must contain your real name and
email address. Various forms of noreply email address must not be used.

Any copyright notices in this repository should specify the authors as "The
project authors".

To sign your work, just add a line like this at the end of your commit message:

```text
Signed-off-by: Amanda Katona <akatona@vmware.com>
```

This can easily be done with the `--signoff` option to `git commit`.

By doing this you state that you can certify the following (from [https://developercertificate.org/](https://developercertificate.org/) ):

```text
Developer Certificate of Origin
Version 1.1

Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.
1 Letterman Drive
Suite D4700
San Francisco, CA, 94129

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
license document, but changing it is not allowed.


Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
    have the right to submit it under the open source license
    indicated in the file; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
    of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
    license and I have the right under that license to submit that
    work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
    by me, under the same open source license (unless I am
    permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
    in the file; or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
    person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
    it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
    are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
    personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
    maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
    this project or the open source license(s) involved.
```

[new-issue]: https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/tce/issues/new/choose

Commit message:

Add docs for developing against TCE using multiple go modules
Fix small CLI mis-spelling

Update README to reflect cmd/plugin structure

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Tanzu Community Edition

First of all, thank you for investing your time in contributing to Tanzu Community Edition (TCE).
These guidelines will help you get started. Please note that we require [DCO sign off](#dco-sign-off) for all commits.

## Building from source

This section describes how to build TCE from source. Build and test is driven by our [Makefile](Makefile).
Commands meant to be used directly by developers feature help text. You can see this by running `make help`.

### Fetch the source

```shell
git clone https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/tce
```

### Building the CLI and all plugins from source

TCE consists of the `tanzu` CLI and multiple CLI plugins that facilitate functionality from cluster management to authentication.
The CLI and some of its plugins live in different repositories. To build the CLI and all plugins, including those
hosted in the TCE repository, run the following.

```shell
make build-all
```

After build and install, you'll see an output similar to the following.

```text
[COMPLETE] installed plugins at /home/josh/.local/share/tanzu-cli/. These plugins will be automatically detected by tanzu CLI.

[COMPLETE] installed tanzu CLI at /home/josh/bin/tanzu. Move this binary to a location in your path!
```

As seen in the message above, you can now move `tanzu` from the location it was installed into a location in your path (such as `/usr/local/bin`).
Plugins are automatically installed in the correctly location, so when calling `tanzu`, the plugins functionality is picked up automatically.

### Building only TCE-specific plugins from source

If you already have `tanzu` CLI installed and wish to only compile and install TCE-specific plugins, run the following.

```shell
make build-plugin
```

After build and install, you'll see an output similar to the following.

```text
[COMPLETE] installed TCE-specific plugins at /home/josh/.local/share/tanzu-cli/. These plugins will be automatically detected by your tanzu CLI.
```

Now that the TCE-specifc plugins are installed on your system, you will see their command when running `tanzu`.

### Running TCE-specific plugin tests

To run tests on TCE-specific CLI plugins, run the following.

```shell
make test-plugins
```

## Contribution workflow

This section describes the process for contributing a bug fix or new feature.

### Before you submit a pull request

This project operates according to the _talk, then code_ rule.
If you plan to submit a pull request for anything more than a typo or obvious bug fix, first you _should_ [raise an issue][new-issue] to discuss your proposal, before submitting any code.

Depending on the size of the feature you may be expected to first write a design proposal. Follow the [Proposal Process](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/tce/blob/master/GOVERNANCE.md#proposal-process) documented in TCE's Governance.

### Commit message and PR guidelines

- Have a short subject on the first line and a body.
- Use the imperative mood (ie "If applied, this commit will (subject)" should make sense).
- There must be a DCO line ("Signed-off-by: Amanda Katona <akatona@vmware.com>"), see [DCO Sign Off](#dco-sign-off) below.
- Put a summary of the main area affected by the commit at the start,
with a colon as delimiter. For example 'docs:', 'extensions/(extensionname):', 'design:' or something similar.
- Do not merge commits that don't relate to the affected issue (e.g. "Updating from PR comments", etc). Should
the need to cherrypick a commit or rollback arise, it should be clear what a specific commit's purpose is.
- If the main branch has moved on, you'll need to rebase before we can merge,
so merging upstream main or rebasing from upstream before opening your
PR will probably save you some time.

Pull requests *must* include a `Fixes #NNNN` or `Updates #NNNN` comment.
Remember that `Fixes` will close the associated issue, and `Updates` will link the PR to it.

#### Sample commit message

```text
extensions/extenzi: Add quux functions

To implement the quux functions from #xxyyz, we need to
flottivate the crosp, then ensure that the orping is
appred.

Fixes #xxyyz

Signed-off-by: Your Name <you@youremail.com>
```

### Merging commits

Maintainers should prefer to merge pull requests with the [Squash and merge](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-request-merges#squash-and-merge-your-pull-request-commits) option.
This option is preferred for a number of reasons.
First, it causes GitHub to insert the pull request number in the commit subject which makes it easier to track which PR changes landed in.
Second, it gives maintainers an opportunity to edit the commit message to conform to TCE standards and general [good practice](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/).
Finally, a one-to-one correspondence between pull requests and commits makes it easier to manage reverting changes and increases the reliability of bisecting the tree (since CI runs at a pull request granularity).

At a maintainer's discretion, pull requests with multiple commits can be merged with the [Create a merge commit](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-request-merges) option.
Merging pull requests with multiple commits can make sense in cases where a change involves code generation or mechanical changes that can be cleanly separated from semantic changes.
The maintainer should review commit messages for each commit and make sure that each commit builds and passes tests.

### Pre commit CI

Before a change is submitted it should pass all the pre commit CI jobs.
If there are unrelated test failures the change can be merged so long as a reference to an issue that tracks the test failures is provided.

## DCO Sign off

All authors to the project retain copyright to their work. However, to ensure
that they are only submitting work that they have rights to, we are requiring
everyone to acknowledge this by signing their work.

Since this signature indicates your rights to the contribution and
certifies the statements below, it must contain your real name and
email address. Various forms of noreply email address must not be used.

Any copyright notices in this repository should specify the authors as "The
project authors".

To sign your work, just add a line like this at the end of your commit message:

```text
Signed-off-by: Amanda Katona <akatona@vmware.com>
```

This can easily be done with the `--signoff` option to `git commit`.

By doing this you state that you can certify the following (from [https://developercertificate.org/](https://developercertificate.org/) ):

```text
Developer Certificate of Origin
Version 1.1

Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.
1 Letterman Drive
Suite D4700
San Francisco, CA, 94129

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
license document, but changing it is not allowed.


Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
    have the right to submit it under the open source license
    indicated in the file; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
    of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
    license and I have the right under that license to submit that
    work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
    by me, under the same open source license (unless I am
    permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
    in the file; or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
    person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
    it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
    are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
    personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
    maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
    this project or the open source license(s) involved.
```

[new-issue]: https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/tce/issues/new/choose

### Multiple Go Modules

The TCE project is made up of many different, seperate Go modules.
Each module has its own `go.mod` and `go.sum` file located in the "root" of that individual, digestible piece of software.
This allows TCE to not have a single dependency graph, but rather, multiple, independent dependency graphs.
Experimental plugins or packages can pull in different versions of the same library without creating conflicts and collisions.
For this reason, contributors are discouraged from creating interlinking dependencies between the various Go modules.
If you need a "shared" library, please open an issue to discuss with the community.

This has several development implications:

- When working with a piece of code, to allow your editor to have auto-complete and analysis capabilities, open the directory in your editor that contains the `go.mod` file.
  Your editor then sees this as the "root" of the code you're working on so that various tools like the gopls language server will work correctly.
  - Example: If I wanted to work on `cli/cmd/plugin/my-plugin/command.go`, in order to enable Go editor features, I'd open `cli/cmd/plugin/my-plugin` as the top level directory in my editor.
- When adding automation or testing, ensure that your scripts have entered the right directory to execute the right command. For example, because there is no `go.mod` at the top level directory, `go` commands won't work. You must first enter the appropriate directory.
