addons/packages/contour/1.22.0/README.md, before:

# Contour

This package provides an ingress controller using [Contour](https://projectcontour.io/).

This documentation provides information about the specific TCE package.
Please visit the [TCE package management page](https://tanzucommunityedition.io/docs/package-management/) for general information about installation, removal, troubleshooting, and other topics.

## Installation

The Contour package installs the Contour controller and the Envoy reverse proxy.
The package uses a reasonable set of default settings, but behavior can be customized by specifying settings in the data values file.

### Installation of dependencies

The Contour package has no dependencies.

### Installation of package

#### Environments with support for LoadBalancer services (AWS, Azure, vSphere)

Install the Contour package using default configuration options:

```shell
tanzu package install contour \
  --package-name contour.community.tanzu.vmware.com \
  --version 1.22.0
```

#### Environments without support for LoadBalancer services (Docker)

1. Create a data values file that sets the Envoy service type to `ClusterIP`:

    ```shell
    cat <<EOF >contour-values.yaml
    envoy:
      service:
        type: ClusterIP
    EOF
    ```

1. Install the Contour package using the data values file:

    ```shell
    tanzu package install contour \
      --package-name contour.community.tanzu.vmware.com \
      --version 1.22.0 \
      --values-file contour-values.yaml
    ```

For additional configuration options, see the [Options section](#options).

## Options

### Package configuration values

You can configure the following in the data values file:

| Config | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `infrastructureProvider` | (none) | The underlying infrastructure provider. Optional, used for validating & defaulting other configuration values on specific platforms. Valid values are `aws`, `azure`, `docker` and `vsphere`. |
| `namespace` | `projectcontour` | The namespace in which to deploy Contour and Envoy. |
| `contour.configFileContents` | (none) | The YAML contents of the Contour config file. See [the Contour configuration documentation](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.0/configuration/#configuration-file) for more information. |
| `contour.replicas` | `2` | How many Contour pod replicas to have. |
| `contour.useProxyProtocol` | `false` | Whether to enable PROXY protocol for all Envoy listeners. |
| `contour.logLevel` | `info` | The Contour log level. Valid values are `info` and `debug`. |
| `envoy.service.type` | `NodePort` for docker and vsphere; `LoadBalancer` for others | The type of Kubernetes service to provision for Envoy. Valid values are `LoadBalancer`, `NodePort`, and `ClusterIP`. |
| `envoy.service.externalTrafficPolicy` | `Cluster` for vsphere; `Local` for others | The external traffic policy for the Envoy service. Valid values are `Local` and `Cluster`.  If `envoy.service.type` is `ClusterIP`, this field is ignored. |
| `envoy.service.loadBalancerIP` | (none) | The desired load balancer IP for the Envoy service. If `envoy.service.type` is not `LoadBalancer`, this field is ignored. |
| `envoy.service.annotations` | (none) | Annotations to set on the Envoy service. |
| `envoy.service.nodePorts.http` | (none) | If `envoy.service.type` == `NodePort` or `LoadBalancer`, the node port number to expose Envoy's HTTP listener on. If not specified, a node port will be auto-assigned by Kubernetes. |
| `envoy.service.nodePorts.https` | (none) | If `envoy.service.type` == `NodePort` or `LoadBalancer`, the node port number to expose Envoy's HTTPS listener on. If not specified, a node port will be auto-assigned by Kubernetes. |
| `envoy.service.aws.loadBalancerType` | (none) | If `infrastructureProvider` == `aws`, the type of AWS load balancer to provision. Valid values are `classic` and `nlb`. If `infrastructureProvider` is not `aws`, this field is ignored. |
| `envoy.hostPorts.enable` | `false` | Whether to enable host ports for the Envoy pods. If false, `envoy.hostPorts.http` and `envoy.hostPorts.https` are ignored. |
| `envoy.hostPorts.http` | `80` | If `envoy.hostPorts.enable` == true, the host port number to expose Envoy's HTTP listener on. |
| `envoy.hostPorts.https` | `443` | If `envoy.hostPorts.enable` == true, the host port number to expose Envoy's HTTPS listener on. |
| `envoy.hostNetwork` | `false` | Whether to enable host networking for the Envoy pods. |
| `envoy.terminationGracePeriodSeconds` | `300` | The termination grace period, in seconds, for the Envoy pods. |
| `envoy.logLevel` | `info` | The Envoy log level. Valid values are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `critical`, and `off`. |
| `certificates.useCertManager` | `false` | Whether to use cert-manager to provision TLS certificates for securing communication between Contour and Envoy. If false, the upstream Contour certgen job will be used to provision certificates. If true, the `cert-manager` addon must be installed in the cluster. |
| `certificates.duration` | `8760h` |  If using cert-manager, how long the certificates should be valid for. If useCertManager is false, this field is ignored. |
| `certificates.renewBefore` | `360h` |  If using cert-manager, how long before expiration the certificates should be renewed. If useCertManager is false, this field is ignored. |

### Application configuration values

Within the data values file, the `contour.configFileContents` field may optionally contain YAML to put directly in the Contour config file.
See [the Contour configuration documentation](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.0/configuration/#configuration-file) for full details on the available options.

An example data values file that specifies this field looks like:

```yaml
contour:
  configFileContents:
    accesslog-format: json
```

#### Multi-cloud configuration steps

If deploying Contour to **AWS**, you may optionally configure the package to provision a Network Load Balancer (NLB) instead of the default Classic Load Balancer by providing the following data values:

```yaml
infrastructureProvider: aws
envoy:
  service:
    aws:
      loadBalancerType: nlb
```

You may specify platform-specific annotations to be added to the Envoy service by providing the following data values:

```yaml
envoy:
  service:
    annotations:
      annotation-key-1: val-1
      ...
```

## What This Package Does

This package installs Contour, an ingress controller, to enable the user to define rules for routing external traffic to services running inside the cluster.
Contour supports both the [Ingress API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) and the Contour-specific [HTTPProxy API](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.0/config/fundamentals/) for configuring traffic routing rules.

## Components

* Contour controller
* Envoy reverse proxy and load balancer

### Supported Providers

The following tables shows the providers this package can work with.

| AWS  |  Azure  | vSphere  | Docker |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| ✅  |  ✅  | ✅  | ✅  |

## Files

The Contour package optionally accepts a data values file to customize the package's behavior.
See [Package configuration values](#package-configuration-values) for details of the configurable settings.

An example of the data values file looks like:

```yaml
namespace: my-custom-contour-namespace
contour:
  replicas: 3
envoy:
  logLevel: debug
```

## Package Limitations

* Not all Contour command-line flags can be customized via data values file. For example, Contour's `--ingress-class-name` flag cannot be specified.
* The package only supports installing Envoy as a DaemonSet.

## Usage Example

The following is a basic guide for getting started with Contour. You must [deploy the package](#installation) before attempting this walkthrough.

⚠️ Note: For more advanced use cases and documentation, see the official Contour [documentation](https://projectcontour.io/docs/).

1. Create a namespace for the example workload:

    ```shell
    kubectl create namespace contour-example-workload
    ```

1. Create an example deployment, in this case, nginx, to route traffic to via Contour:

    ```shell
    kubectl create deployment nginx-example --image nginx --namespace contour-example-workload
    ```

1. Create a service for nginx. This will map port 80 of the service to port 80 of the nginx app.

    ```shell
    kubectl create service clusterip nginx-example --tcp 80:80 --namespace contour-example-workload
   ```

1. Create a Contour `HTTPProxy` that directs traffic to the nginx instance:

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
    kind: HTTPProxy
    metadata:
      name: nginx-example-proxy
      namespace: contour-example-workload
      labels:
        app: ingress
    spec:
      virtualhost:
        fqdn: nginx-example.projectcontour.io
      routes:
      - conditions:
        - prefix: /
        services:
        - name: nginx-example
          port: 80
    EOF
    ```

1. Get the address to send traffic to. If you are using a `LoadBalancer` Envoy service, get the service's external IP:

    ```shell
    kubectl --namespace projectcontour get service envoy
    NAME    TYPE           CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP            PORT(S)                      AGE
    envoy   LoadBalancer   10.12.10.93   <ENVOY-EXTERNAL-IP>    80:31232/TCP,443:32459/TCP   1h
    ```

   If you are using a `NodePort` or `ClusterIP` Envoy service, in a separate terminal, set up a port forward from your local machine to the service:

    ```shell
    kubectl --namespace projectcontour port-forward svc/envoy <LOCAL-PORT>:80
    ```

1. Make a request. If you are using a `LoadBalancer` Envoy service:

   ```shell
   curl -s -H "Host: nginx-example.projectcontour.io" <ENVOY-EXTERNAL-IP> | grep title
   <title>Welcome to nginx!</title>
   ```

   If you are using a `NodePort` or `ClusterIP` Envoy service:

   ```shell
   curl -s -H "Host: nginx-example.projectcontour.io" http://localhost:<LOCAL-PORT> | grep title
   <title>Welcome to nginx!</title>
   ```

## Troubleshooting

See Contour's [troubleshooting page](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.0/troubleshooting/) for information on troubleshooting Contour.

## Additional Documentation

See [the Contour documentation](https://projectcontour.io/docs) for more information.

Commit message:

contour: allow envoy to be run as deployment (#5504)
Allows Envoy to optionally be run as a Deployment
instead of a DaemonSet.

addons/packages/contour/1.22.0/README.md, after:

# Contour

This package provides an ingress controller using [Contour](https://projectcontour.io/).

This documentation provides information about the specific TCE package.
Please visit the [TCE package management page](https://tanzucommunityedition.io/docs/package-management/) for general information about installation, removal, troubleshooting, and other topics.

## Installation

The Contour package installs the Contour controller and the Envoy reverse proxy.
The package uses a reasonable set of default settings, but behavior can be customized by specifying settings in the data values file.

### Installation of dependencies

The Contour package has no dependencies.

### Installation of package

#### Environments with support for LoadBalancer services (AWS, Azure, vSphere)

Install the Contour package using default configuration options:

```shell
tanzu package install contour \
  --package-name contour.community.tanzu.vmware.com \
  --version 1.22.0
```

#### Environments without support for LoadBalancer services (Docker)

1. Create a data values file that sets the Envoy service type to `ClusterIP`:

    ```shell
    cat <<EOF >contour-values.yaml
    envoy:
      service:
        type: ClusterIP
    EOF
    ```

1. Install the Contour package using the data values file:

    ```shell
    tanzu package install contour \
      --package-name contour.community.tanzu.vmware.com \
      --version 1.22.0 \
      --values-file contour-values.yaml
    ```

For additional configuration options, see the [Options section](#options).

## Options

### Package configuration values

You can configure the following in the data values file:

| Config | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `infrastructureProvider` | (none) | The underlying infrastructure provider. Optional, used for validating & defaulting other configuration values on specific platforms. Valid values are `aws`, `azure`, `docker` and `vsphere`. |
| `namespace` | `projectcontour` | The namespace in which to deploy Contour and Envoy. |
| `contour.configFileContents` | (none) | The YAML contents of the Contour config file. See [the Contour configuration documentation](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.0/configuration/#configuration-file) for more information. |
| `contour.replicas` | `2` | How many Contour pod replicas to have. |
| `contour.useProxyProtocol` | `false` | Whether to enable PROXY protocol for all Envoy listeners. |
| `contour.logLevel` | `info` | The Contour log level. Valid values are `info` and `debug`. |
| `envoy.service.type` | `NodePort` for docker and vsphere; `LoadBalancer` for others | The type of Kubernetes service to provision for Envoy. Valid values are `LoadBalancer`, `NodePort`, and `ClusterIP`. |
| `envoy.service.externalTrafficPolicy` | `Cluster` for vsphere; `Local` for others | The external traffic policy for the Envoy service. Valid values are `Local` and `Cluster`.  If `envoy.service.type` is `ClusterIP`, this field is ignored. |
| `envoy.service.loadBalancerIP` | (none) | The desired load balancer IP for the Envoy service. If `envoy.service.type` is not `LoadBalancer`, this field is ignored. |
| `envoy.service.annotations` | (none) | Annotations to set on the Envoy service. |
| `envoy.service.nodePorts.http` | (none) | If `envoy.service.type` == `NodePort` or `LoadBalancer`, the node port number to expose Envoy's HTTP listener on. If not specified, a node port will be auto-assigned by Kubernetes. |
| `envoy.service.nodePorts.https` | (none) | If `envoy.service.type` == `NodePort` or `LoadBalancer`, the node port number to expose Envoy's HTTPS listener on. If not specified, a node port will be auto-assigned by Kubernetes. |
| `envoy.service.aws.loadBalancerType` | (none) | If `infrastructureProvider` == `aws`, the type of AWS load balancer to provision. Valid values are `classic` and `nlb`. If `infrastructureProvider` is not `aws`, this field is ignored. |
| `envoy.hostPorts.enable` | `false` | Whether to enable host ports for the Envoy pods. If false, `envoy.hostPorts.http` and `envoy.hostPorts.https` are ignored. |
| `envoy.hostPorts.http` | `80` | If `envoy.hostPorts.enable` == true, the host port number to expose Envoy's HTTP listener on. |
| `envoy.hostPorts.https` | `443` | If `envoy.hostPorts.enable` == true, the host port number to expose Envoy's HTTPS listener on. |
| `envoy.hostNetwork` | `false` | Whether to enable host networking for the Envoy pods. |
| `envoy.terminationGracePeriodSeconds` | `300` | The termination grace period, in seconds, for the Envoy pods. |
| `envoy.logLevel` | `info` | The Envoy log level. Valid values are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `critical`, and `off`. |
| `envoy.workload.type` | The type of Kubernetes workload Envoy is deployed as. Options are 'Deployment' or 'DaemonSet'. If not specified, will default to 'DaemonSet'. |
| `envoy.workload.replicas` | The number of Envoy replicas to deploy when 'type' is set to 'Deployment'. If not specified, it will default to '2'. |
| `certificates.useCertManager` | `false` | Whether to use cert-manager to provision TLS certificates for securing communication between Contour and Envoy. If false, the upstream Contour certgen job will be used to provision certificates. If true, the `cert-manager` addon must be installed in the cluster. |
| `certificates.duration` | `8760h` |  If using cert-manager, how long the certificates should be valid for. If useCertManager is false, this field is ignored. |
| `certificates.renewBefore` | `360h` |  If using cert-manager, how long before expiration the certificates should be renewed. If useCertManager is false, this field is ignored. |

### Application configuration values

Within the data values file, the `contour.configFileContents` field may optionally contain YAML to put directly in the Contour config file.
See [the Contour configuration documentation](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.0/configuration/#configuration-file) for full details on the available options.

An example data values file that specifies this field looks like:

```yaml
contour:
  configFileContents:
    accesslog-format: json
```

#### Multi-cloud configuration steps

If deploying Contour to **AWS**, you may optionally configure the package to provision a Network Load Balancer (NLB) instead of the default Classic Load Balancer by providing the following data values:

```yaml
infrastructureProvider: aws
envoy:
  service:
    aws:
      loadBalancerType: nlb
```

You may specify platform-specific annotations to be added to the Envoy service by providing the following data values:

```yaml
envoy:
  service:
    annotations:
      annotation-key-1: val-1
      ...
```

## What This Package Does

This package installs Contour, an ingress controller, to enable the user to define rules for routing external traffic to services running inside the cluster.
Contour supports both the [Ingress API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) and the Contour-specific [HTTPProxy API](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.0/config/fundamentals/) for configuring traffic routing rules.

## Components

* Contour controller
* Envoy reverse proxy and load balancer

### Supported Providers

The following tables shows the providers this package can work with.

| AWS  |  Azure  | vSphere  | Docker |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| ✅  |  ✅  | ✅  | ✅  |

## Files

The Contour package optionally accepts a data values file to customize the package's behavior.
See [Package configuration values](#package-configuration-values) for details of the configurable settings.

An example of the data values file looks like:

```yaml
namespace: my-custom-contour-namespace
contour:
  replicas: 3
envoy:
  logLevel: debug
```

## Package Limitations

* Not all Contour command-line flags can be customized via data values file. For example, Contour's `--ingress-class-name` flag cannot be specified.
* The package only supports installing Envoy as a DaemonSet.

## Usage Example

The following is a basic guide for getting started with Contour. You must [deploy the package](#installation) before attempting this walkthrough.

⚠️ Note: For more advanced use cases and documentation, see the official Contour [documentation](https://projectcontour.io/docs/).

1. Create a namespace for the example workload:

    ```shell
    kubectl create namespace contour-example-workload
    ```

1. Create an example deployment, in this case, nginx, to route traffic to via Contour:

    ```shell
    kubectl create deployment nginx-example --image nginx --namespace contour-example-workload
    ```

1. Create a service for nginx. This will map port 80 of the service to port 80 of the nginx app.

    ```shell
    kubectl create service clusterip nginx-example --tcp 80:80 --namespace contour-example-workload
   ```

1. Create a Contour `HTTPProxy` that directs traffic to the nginx instance:

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
    kind: HTTPProxy
    metadata:
      name: nginx-example-proxy
      namespace: contour-example-workload
      labels:
        app: ingress
    spec:
      virtualhost:
        fqdn: nginx-example.projectcontour.io
      routes:
      - conditions:
        - prefix: /
        services:
        - name: nginx-example
          port: 80
    EOF
    ```

1. Get the address to send traffic to. If you are using a `LoadBalancer` Envoy service, get the service's external IP:

    ```shell
    kubectl --namespace projectcontour get service envoy
    NAME    TYPE           CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP            PORT(S)                      AGE
    envoy   LoadBalancer   10.12.10.93   <ENVOY-EXTERNAL-IP>    80:31232/TCP,443:32459/TCP   1h
    ```

   If you are using a `NodePort` or `ClusterIP` Envoy service, in a separate terminal, set up a port forward from your local machine to the service:

    ```shell
    kubectl --namespace projectcontour port-forward svc/envoy <LOCAL-PORT>:80
    ```

1. Make a request. If you are using a `LoadBalancer` Envoy service:

   ```shell
   curl -s -H "Host: nginx-example.projectcontour.io" <ENVOY-EXTERNAL-IP> | grep title
   <title>Welcome to nginx!</title>
   ```

   If you are using a `NodePort` or `ClusterIP` Envoy service:

   ```shell
   curl -s -H "Host: nginx-example.projectcontour.io" http://localhost:<LOCAL-PORT> | grep title
   <title>Welcome to nginx!</title>
   ```

## Troubleshooting

See Contour's [troubleshooting page](https://projectcontour.io/docs/v1.22.0/troubleshooting/) for information on troubleshooting Contour.

## Additional Documentation

See [the Contour documentation](https://projectcontour.io/docs) for more information.
