docs/site/content/docs/assets/azure-standalone-clusters.md, before:

## Create Standalone Azure Clusters

This section covers setting up a standalone cluster in Azure. A standalone cluster provides a workload cluster that is **not** managed by a centralized management cluster.

1. Initialize the Tanzu kickstart UI.

    ```sh
    tanzu standalone-cluster create --ui
    ```

1. Go through the configuration steps, considering the following.


   * In Management Cluster Settings, use the Instance type drop-down menu to select from different combinations of CPU, RAM, and storage for the control plane node VM or VMs. The minimum configuration is 2 CPUs and 8 GB memory

   * Disable **Enable Identity Management Settings**. You can disable identity management for proof-of-concept/development deployments, but it is strongly recommended to implement identity management in production deployments. For more information about enabling Identity Management, see [Identity Management](../azure-install-mgmt/#step-5-identity-management).

1. At the end of the UI, deploy the cluster.

1. Store the name of your cluster (set during configuration or automatically generated) to a
   `STANDALONE_CLUSTER_NAME` environment variable.

    ```sh
    export STANDALONE_CLUSTER_NAME="<INSERT_STANDALONE_CLUSTER_NAME_HERE>"
    ```

1. Set your kubectl context to the cluster.

    ```sh
    kubectl config use-context ${STANDALONE_CLUSTER_NAME}-admin@${STANDALONE_CLUSTER_NAME}
    ```

1. Validate you can access the cluster's API server.

    ```sh
    kubectl get nodes

    NAME                                       STATUS   ROLES                  AGE    VERSION
    ip-10-0-1-133.us-west-2.compute.internal   Ready    <none>                 123m   v1.20.1+vmware.2
    ip-10-0-1-76.us-west-2.compute.internal    Ready    control-plane,master   125m   v1.20.1+vmware.2
    ```

Commit message:

Make steps generic for all OS (#1427)
The main change is fixes Incorrect windows steps in getting started guide for deploying cluster #1384
This removes steps to create unix environment variables and changes all steps that previously used
the environment variable to just use a variable in angle brackets - this is in line with what TKG do,
and is the planned standard for Tanzu Framework doc. It also means that there doesn't need to be a
separate procedure to create a cluster for windows - the steps are specific to provider ( a tab for each)
but generic for OS.

Removes reference to use vim to edit the package config file and instead makes generic reference to
'text editor of your choice'

apply style guide convention to break up command and result

apply style guide convention to refer to 'nzu Community Edition installer interface' on first occurrence
and 'installer interface' for subsequent occurrences

apply some missing steps to windows install topic - just to make it consistent with others, doesn't
change any command

a lot of editorial and changes to make the topics more consistent with each other and other changes to
improve formatting

Signed-off-by: kcoriordan <koriordan@vmware.com>

docs/site/content/docs/assets/azure-standalone-clusters.md, after:

## Create Standalone Azure Clusters

This section covers setting up a standalone cluster in Azure. A standalone cluster provides a workload cluster that is **not** managed by a centralized management cluster.

1. Initialize the Tanzu Community Edition installer interface.

    ```sh
    tanzu standalone-cluster create --ui
    ```

1. Complete the configuration steps in the installer interface and create the standalone cluster. The following configuration settings are recommended:


   * Use the Instance type drop-down menu to select from different combinations of CPU, RAM, and storage for the control plane node VM or VMs. The minimum configuration is 2 CPUs and 8 GB memory.

   * Disable **Enable Identity Management Settings**. You can disable identity management for proof-of-concept/development deployments, but it is strongly recommended to implement identity management in production deployments. For more information about enabling Identity Management, see [Identity Management](../azure-install-mgmt/#step-5-identity-management).

1. Set your kubectl context to the cluster.

    ```sh
    kubectl config use-context <STANDALONE-CLUSTER-NAME>-admin@<STANDALONE-CLUSTER-NAME>
    ```

1. Validate you can access the cluster's API server.

    ```sh
    kubectl get nodes
    ```
    The output will look similar to the following:
    ```sh
    NAME                                       STATUS   ROLES                  AGE    VERSION
    ip-10-0-1-133.us-west-2.compute.internal   Ready    <none>                 123m   v1.20.1+vmware.2
    ip-10-0-1-76.us-west-2.compute.internal    Ready    control-plane,master   125m   v1.20.1+vmware.2
    ```
