docs/site/content/docs/assets/cli-install-mac.md, before:

## Installation Procedure

1. Make sure you have the [Homebrew package manager installed](https://brew.sh/)

1. You must download and install the latest version of `kubectl`. For more information, see [Install and Set Up kubectl on MacOS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-macos/) in the Kubernetes documentation.

1. You must download and install the latest version of `docker`. For more information, see [Install Docker Desktop on MacOS](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/mac/install/) in the Docker documentation.

1. Run the following in your terminal:

    ```sh
    brew install vmware-tanzu/tanzu/tanzu-community-edition
    ```

1. Run the post install configuration script. Note the output of the `brew install` step for the correct location of the configure script:

    ```sh
    {HOMEBREW-INSTALL-LOCATION}/{{< release_latest >}}/libexec/configure-tce.sh
    ```

    > This puts all the Tanzu plugins in the correct location.
    > The first time you run the `tanzu` command the installed plugins and plugin repositories are initialized. This action might take a minute.

Commit message:

Add mac binary install steps to doc.
Signed-off-by: kcoriordan <koriordan@vmware.com>

docs/site/content/docs/assets/cli-install-mac.md, after:

## Installation Procedure

You can install Tanzu Community Edition using Homebrew **or** you can download the binary and install.

### Option 1: Use the Homebrew install method

1. Make sure you have the [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) package manager installed.

1. Run the following in your terminal:

    ```sh
    brew install vmware-tanzu/tanzu/tanzu-community-edition
    ```

1. Run the post install configuration script. Note the output of the `brew install` step for the correct location of the configure script:

    ```sh
    <HOMEBREW-INSTALL-LOCATION>/{{< release_latest >}}/libexec/configure-tce.sh
    ```

## Option 2: Use the binary download/install  method

1. Download the release for [macOS](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/community-edition/releases/download/{{< release_latest >}}/tce-darwin-amd64-{{< release_latest >}}.tar.gz).

1. Change to the download directory and unpack the release. Run the following in your terminal:

    ```sh
    cd <DOWNLOAD-DIR>
    tar xzvf ~/<DOWNLOAD-DIR>/tce-darwin-amd64-{{< release_latest >}}.tar.gz

    ```

1. Change to the extracted directory and run the install script.

    ```sh
    cd tce-darwin-amd64-{{< release_latest >}}
    ./install.sh
    ```
