addons/packages/multus-cni/README.md, before:

# Multus CNI

This package provides the ability for enabling attaching multiple network interfaces to pods in Kubernetes using [multus-cni](https://github.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/multus-cni).

## Components

* Multus CNI Custom Resources
* Multus CNI DaemonSet
* Multus CNI ConfigMap

## Configuration

The following configuration values can be set to customize the Multus CNI installation.

### Global

| Value | Required/Optional | Description |
|-------|-------------------|-------------|
| `namespace` | Optional | The namespace in which to deploy Multus CNI DaemonSet. |

### Multus CNI configuration

| Value | Required/Optional | Description |
|-------|-------------------|-------------|
| `image` | Optional | The image used by Multus CNI DaemonSet. |

## Usage Example

This example guides you about attaching another network interface scenario that leverages the Multus CNI package. You must deploy the package before attempting this walkthrough.

1. Firstly, install the Multus CNI through tanzu command:

    ```bash
    tanzu package install multus-cni.tce.vmware.com
    ```

2. After the Multus CNI DaemonSet is running, you can define your network-attachment-defs to tell Multus CNI which CNI will be used for other network interfaces:

   ```bash
   cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
   apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
   kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
     metadata:
    name: macvlan-conf
   spec:
     config: '{
       "cniVersion": "0.3.0",
       "type": "macvlan",
       "master": "eth0",
       "mode": "bridge",
       "ipam": {
         "type": "host-local",
         "subnet": "192.168.1.0/24",
         "rangeStart": "192.168.1.200",
         "rangeEnd": "192.168.1.216",
         "routes": [
           { "dst": "0.0.0.0/0" }
         ],
         "gateway": "192.168.1.1"
        }
      }'
    EOF
    ```

3. Deploy a sample pod using the network-attachment-defs defined above by just adding below lines to the pod spec:

    ```bash
    metadata:
      annotations:
      k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: macvlan-conf
    ```

4. After the pod is running, you could run below commands to check if the second network interface is up and running:

    ```bash
    kubectl exec <your-pod> -- ip a
    ```

Commit message:

Export args field for Multus CNI DaemonSet

addons/packages/multus-cni/README.md, after:

# Multus CNI

This package provides the ability for enabling attaching multiple network interfaces to pods in Kubernetes using [multus-cni](https://github.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/multus-cni).

## Components

* Multus CNI Custom Resources
* Multus CNI DaemonSet
* Multus CNI ConfigMap

## Configuration

The following configuration values can be set to customize the Multus CNI installation.

### Global

| Value | Required/Optional | Description |
|-------|-------------------|-------------|
| `namespace` | Optional | The namespace in which to deploy Multus CNI DaemonSet. |

### Multus CNI configuration

| Value | Required/Optional | Description |
|-------|-------------------|-------------|
| `image` | Optional | The image used by Multus CNI DaemonSet. |
| `args` | Optional | The args for Multus CNI DaemonSet container. |

## Usage Example

This example guides you about attaching another network interface scenario that leverages the Multus CNI package. You must deploy the package before attempting this walkthrough.

1. Firstly, install the Multus CNI through tanzu command:

    ```bash
    tanzu package install multus-cni.tce.vmware.com
    ```

2. After the Multus CNI DaemonSet is running, you can define your network-attachment-defs to tell Multus CNI which CNI will be used for other network interfaces:

   ```bash
   cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
   apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
   kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
     metadata:
    name: macvlan-conf
   spec:
     config: '{
       "cniVersion": "0.3.0",
       "type": "macvlan",
       "master": "eth0",
       "mode": "bridge",
       "ipam": {
         "type": "host-local",
         "subnet": "192.168.1.0/24",
         "rangeStart": "192.168.1.200",
         "rangeEnd": "192.168.1.216",
         "routes": [
           { "dst": "0.0.0.0/0" }
         ],
         "gateway": "192.168.1.1"
        }
      }'
    EOF
    ```

3. Deploy a sample pod using the network-attachment-defs defined above by just adding below lines to the pod spec:

    ```bash
    metadata:
      annotations:
      k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: macvlan-conf
    ```

4. After the pod is running, you could run below commands to check if the second network interface is up and running:

    ```bash
    kubectl exec <your-pod> -- ip a
    ```
