docs/site/content/docs/latest/fluentbit-config.md, before:

# Configuring the Fluent Bit Package

> Fluent Bit is an open source Log Processor and Forwarder which allows you to collect any data like metrics and logs from different sources, enrich them with filters and send them to multiple destinations.

This package deploys Fluent Bit as a DaemonSet, with one Fluent Bit `pod` on each Kubernetes `node`, collecting and forwarding logs from each `pod` running on that `node`.
The provided default configuration will print forwarded logs to `stdout` on the `fluent-bit`.
The `stdout` output plugin is useful for testing, but typically not appropriate for production use.
Instead, Fluent Bit supports configurations for a number of different output types, such as open-source software like `postgresql` or `loki`, cloud platform-provided services like `CloudWatch`, `S3`, or `Stackdriver`, or generic protocols like `http` and `syslog`.

For more information on output types, see the [Output](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs) section of the Fluent Bit Documentation.

## Configuration

The following configuration values can be set to customize the Fluent Bit installation.

### Global

| Value | Required/Optional | Description |
|-------|-------------------|-------------|
| `namespace` | Optional | The namespace in which to deploy Fluent Bit. |

### Fluent Bit Configuration

| Value | Required/Optional | Description |
|-------|-------------------|-------------|
|`fluent_bit.outputs`|Optional|configuration for Fluent Bit outputs, as a multiline `yaml` string. See the Fluent Bit config file [documentation](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/administration/configuring-fluent-bit/configuration-file#config_output) for detailed configuration guidance.|

## Usage Example

Once the package has been deployed, tail the logs from the Fluent Bit DaemonSet using `kubectl logs daemonset/fluent-bit -n fluent-bit`. You should see a large volume of logs from all pods.

Commit message:

Pkg config topic updates (#774)
* pkg config topic updates

* Update velero-config.md

* Update knative-config.md

* minor pkg readme updates

* pkg readme updates

* pkg readme updates

docs/site/content/docs/latest/fluentbit-config.md, after:

# Configuring the Fluent Bit Package

Fluent Bit is an open source log processor and forwarder which allows you to collect any data like metrics and logs from different sources, enrich them with filters and send them to multiple destinations.

This package deploys Fluent Bit as a DaemonSet, with one Fluent Bit `pod` on each Kubernetes `node`, collecting and forwarding logs from each `pod` running on that `node`.
The provided default configuration will print forwarded logs to `stdout` on the `fluent-bit`.
The `stdout` output plugin is useful for testing, but typically not appropriate for production use.
Instead, Fluent Bit supports configurations for a number of different output types, such as open-source software like `postgresql` or `loki`, cloud platform-provided services like `CloudWatch`, `S3`, or `Stackdriver`, or generic protocols like `http` and `syslog`.

For more information on output types, see the Outputs topic in the [Fluent Bit Documentation](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/outputs).

## Installation
Run the following command to install the Fluent Bit package, for more information, see [Packages Introduction](packages-intro.md).

```shell
tanzu package install fluent-bit.tce.vmware.com
```

## Configuration

The following configuration values can be set to customize the Fluent Bit installation.

### Global Configuration

| Value | Required/Optional | Description |
|:-------|-------------------|-------------|
| `namespace` | Optional | The namespace in which to deploy Fluent Bit. |

### Fluent Bit Configuration

| Value | Required/Optional | Description |
|:-------|:-------------------|:-------------|
|`fluent_bit.outputs`|Optional|Configuration for Fluent Bit outputs as a multiline `yaml` string. For detailed configuration guidance, see the Configuration File topic in the [Fluent Bit documentation](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/administration/configuring-fluent-bit/configuration-file#config_output).|

## Usage Example

Once the package has been deployed, tail the logs from the Fluent Bit DaemonSet using `kubectl logs daemonset/fluent-bit -n fluent-bit`. You should see a large volume of logs from all pods.
