docs/site/content/docs/latest/packages-intro.md, before:

# Packages overview

{{% include "/docs/assets/package-description.md" %}}

The following topics provides details on:
[Package Descriptions](#pkg-des)  
[Installing and Managing Packages](#pkg-install)


## Package Descriptions {#pkg-des}

The following extensions are available: 

|Name           |Description|
|:------------------------ |:--- |
|cert-manager |This package provides certificate management functionality.|
|Contour|This package provides an ingress controller. |
|External-dns |This package provides external DNS capabilities.|
|Fluent Bit|This package provides log processor and forwarder capabilities.|
|Gatekeeper|This package provides custom admission control.|
|Grafana|This package provides standardized data visualization and analysis from data in multiple sources.|
|Knative|This package provides serverless functionality.|
|Prometheus|This package provides a monitoring and alerting toolkit.|
|Velero|This package provides disaster recovery capabilities.|

## {#pkg-install}
{{% include "/docs/assets/package-installation.md" %}}

Commit message:

Update documentation to feature new package CLI plugin #1226
Signed-off-by: Nicholas Seemiller <nseemiller@vmware.com>

docs/site/content/docs/latest/packages-intro.md, after:

# Packages overview

{{% include "/docs/assets/package-description.md" %}}

The following topics provides details on:
[Package Descriptions](#pkg-des)  
[Installing and Managing Packages](#pkg-install)


## Package Descriptions {#pkg-des}

The following packages are available: 

|Name           |Description|
|:------------------------ |:--- |
|cert-manager |This package provides certificate management functionality.|
|Contour|This package provides an ingress controller. |
|External-dns |This package provides external DNS capabilities.|
|Fluent Bit|This package provides log processor and forwarder capabilities.|
|Gatekeeper|This package provides custom admission control.|
|Grafana|This package provides standardized data visualization and analysis from data in multiple sources.|
|Harbor|This package provides an OCI Registry|
|Knative|This package provides serverless functionality.|
|Local Path Storage|This package provides local path node storage.|
|Multus CNI|This package provides attaching multiple network interfaces to pods in Kubernetes|
|Prometheus|This package provides a monitoring and alerting toolkit.|
|Velero|This package provides disaster recovery capabilities.|

## {#pkg-install}
{{% include "/docs/assets/package-installation.md" %}}
