docs/site/content/docs/ref-unmanaged-cluster.md, before:

# Unmanaged Clusters Reference

This is the reference documentation for the `unmanaged-cluster` plugin. If
this is your first time deploying an unmanaged cluster, see
[Getting Started with Unmanaged Clusters](getting-started-unmanaged/).

## Command aliases

As a Tanzu CLI plugin, unmanaged clusters can be interacted with using `tanzu
unmanaged-cluster`. `uc`, `um`, and `unmanaged` are all valid aliases for the
command. This means the following commands equate to the same:

* `tanzu unmanaged-cluster create hello`
* `tanzu uc create hello`
* `tanzu um create hello`
* `tanzu unmanaged create hello`

## Creating clusters

`create` is used to create a new cluster. By default, it:

1. Installs a cluster using the `kind` provider.
1. Installs `kapp-controller`.
1. Installs a core package repository.
1. Installs a user-managed package repository.
1. Installs a CNI package.
    * defaults to `calico`.
1. Sets your kubeconfig context to the newly created cluster.

To create a cluster, run:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create ${CLUSTER_NAME}
```

## Using a different cluster provider

`create` supports the `--provider` flag or `Provider` config option
which sets the cluster bootstrapping provider.

The following providers are supported:

* `kind`: _Default provider._ A tool for running local Kubernetes clusters using Docker container “nodes”. [Documentation site.](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/)
* `minikube`: Local Kubernetes, focusing on making it easy to learn and develop for Kubernetes. Supports ontainer and virtual machine managers. [Documentation site.](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/)

## Deploy multi-node clusters

`create` supports `--control-plane-node-count`
and `--worker-node-count` to create multi-node clusters in a supported provider.

_Note:_ The `kind` provider does _not_ support deploying multiple control planes
with no worker nodes. For this type of granular configuration, see [Customize cluster provider.](#customize-cluster-provider)

_Note:_ The `minikube` provider does _not_ support deploying multiple control planes.

The following example deploys 5 total nodes
using the default `kind` provider

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create --control-plane-node-count 2 --worker-node-count 3
```

## Install additional package repository

`create` supports `--additional-repo` to automatically install package repositories
during cluster bootstrapping. This flag may be specified multiple times to install multiple repositories.
Values should be valid registry URLs that point to package repositories.
If this config option is provided, the default package repository will not be installed.

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create --additional-repo my-repo.registry-url.com/path
```

## Installing Profiles

_Warning:_ Profiles is an experimental feature. Use with caution.

When creating a cluster, designate `--profile` to automatically install
a package from an installed package repository.
The name of the profile must be the fully qualified name of the package in the package repository,
or a prefix of the package name in the package repository.

So, for example, to install `fluent-bit` during cluster creation,
run the following

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create my-cluster --profile fluent-bit
```

By default, the _latest_ package is installed
and all default values are used for the package.

To designate a profile version or profile values yaml file, use a profile mapping.
The expected format is:

```text
profile-name:profile-version:profile-config-file
```

This is used with the `--profile` flag:

```sh
tanzu unmanged-cluster create --profile fluent-bit:1.7.5:path-to-my-config.yaml
```

Both `profile-version` and `profile-config-file` are optional.

To install the most recent package, use the keyword `latest` or an empty string for the profile version
to select the most recent semantic version for the specified package. Example:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create my-cluster --profile external-dns:latest:path-to-my-config.yaml
```

For further information on [packages and configuring packages, read the documentation.](package-management)

## Installing multiple Profiles

_Warning:_ Profiles is an experimental feature. Use with caution.

Profile mappings may be specified multiple times via multiple `--profile` flags
or within a singule profile flag, delimitted by a comma:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create --profile fluent-bit:1.7.5,external-dns::path-to-my-config.yaml
```

The above will install the fluent-bit package at version 1.7.5 with no values yaml file
and the external-dns package at the latest version with a values yaml file.

Finally, for the most granularity and configurability,
you may configure all profile options via a unmanaged cluster config file.
The following is a truncated config file and can be [generated via `tanzu unmanaged-cluster config`](#custom-configuration)
with a `--profile` flag and profile mappings:

```yaml
Profiles:
- name: fluent-bit.community.tanzu.vmware.com
- name: external-dns.community.tanzu.vmware.com
  config: external-values.yaml
  version: 0.10.0
- name: app-toolkit.community.tanzu.vmware.com
  config: values.yaml
```

Using the above config file:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create -f my-config
```

Will create a cluster with three profiles:

* fluent-bit at the latest version with default values
* external-dns at version 0.10.0 with the default values
* app-toolkit at the latest version configured with the provided values

_Note:_ The above examples may fail to install the packages without proper values provided.
Always read the documentation for the specific package and profile you are installing.

## Listing clusters

`list` or `ls` is used to list all known clusters. To list known clusters, run:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster list
```

## Deleting clusters

`delete` or `rm` is used to delete a cluster. It will:

1. Attempt to delete the cluster based on the provider.
    * by default, clusters use `kind`, this will delete the `kind` cluster.
1. Attempt to remove the cluster's directory.
    * located at `~/.config/tanzu/tkg/unmanaged/${CLUSTER_NAME}/`.

To delete a cluster, run:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster delete ${CLUSTER_NAME}
```

## Custom configuration

`configure`, `config`, or `conf` creates a configuration file for cluster creation:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster configure ${CLUSTER_NAME}
```

This will create a configuration file, which you can modify to change how
clusters are created. When creating a cluster, the `-f` flag can be used to
specify this configuration file.

Along with a configuration file, `unmanaged-cluster` respects settings from
other settings such as flags. The order in which settings are resolved is:

1. Defaults (lowest precedence)
1. Configuration File
1. Environment Variables
1. Flags (highest precedence)

As a result of rendering the above, a final configuration file is persisted to:

`~/.config/tanzu/tkg/unmanaged/${CLUSTER_NAME}/config.yaml`

Reviewing this file can help in troubleshooting issues during cluster
bootstrapping.

## Customize cluster provider

Use the `ProviderConfiguration` field in the configuration file
to give provider specific and granular customizations.
Note that _ALL_ other provider specific configs are ignored
when `ProviderConfiguration` is used.

* Kind provider: Use the `rawKindConfig` field to enter an entire [`kind` configuration file](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/configuration/)
  to be used when bootstrapping. For example, the following config
  deploys a control plane with port mappings and 2 worker nodes,
  all using the VMware hosted kind image.

  ```yaml
  ClusterName: my-kind-cluster
  KubeconfigPath: ""
  ExistingClusterKubeconfig: ""
  NodeImage: ""
  Provider: kind
  ProviderConfiguration:
    rawKindConfig: |
      kind: Cluster
      apiVersion: kind.x-k8s.io/v1alpha4
      nodes:
      - role: control-plane
        image: projects.registry.vmware.com/tce/kind/node:v1.22.5
        extraPortMappings:
        - containerPort: 888
          hostPort: 888
          listenAddress: "127.0.0.1"
          protocol: TCP
        - role: worker
          image: projects.registry.vmware.com/tce/kind/node:v1.22.5
        - role: worker
          image: projects.registry.vmware.com/tce/kind/node:v1.22.5
  Cni: calico
  CniConfiguration: {}
  PodCidr: 10.244.0.0/16
  ServiceCidr: 10.96.0.0/16
  TkrLocation: ""
  AdditionalPackageRepos: []
  PortsToForward: []
  SkipPreflight: false
  ControlPlaneNodeCount: "1"
  WorkerNodeCount: "0"
  Profiles: []
  ```

* Minikube provider:
  * `driver` - Optional: Sets the driver to run Kubernetes in. [Selecting a driver depends on your operating system.](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/drivers/)
  * `containerRuntime` - Optional: Sets the container runtime to use use. Valid options: docker, cri-o, containerd, auto.
  * `rawMinikubeArgs` - Optional: The raw flags and arguments to pass to the minikube binary. _Warning:_ use with caution. Flags and arguments provided through this method are not checked or validated by the unmanaged-cluster plugin.

  Example using config options:

  ```yaml
  ClusterName: my-minikube-cluster
  KubeconfigPath: ""
  ExistingClusterKubeconfig: ""
  NodeImage: ""
  Provider: minikube
  ProviderConfiguration:
    driver: vmware
    container-runtime: auto
    rawMinikubeArgs: --disk-size 30000mb
  Cni: calico
  CniConfiguration: {}
  PodCidr: 10.244.0.0/16
  ServiceCidr: 10.96.0.0/16
  TkrLocation: ""
  AdditionalPackageRepos: []
  PortsToForward: []
  SkipPreflight: false
  ControlPlaneNodeCount: "1"
  WorkerNodeCount: "0"
  Profiles: []
  ```

## Install to existing cluster

If you wish to install the Tanzu components, such as `kapp-controller` and the
package repositories into an **existing** cluster, you can do so with the
`--existing-cluster-kubeconfig`/`e` flags or `existingClusterKubeconfig`
configuration field. The following example demonstrates installing into an
existing [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io) cluster.

1. Create a `minikube` cluster.

    ```sh
    $ minikube start

    * minikube v1.24.0 on Arch rolling
    * Automatically selected the docker driver. Other choices: kvm2, ssh
    * Starting control plane node minikube in cluster minikube
    * Pulling base image ...

    * Preparing Kubernetes v1.22.3 on Docker 20.10.8 ...
      - Generating certificates and keys ...
      - Booting up control plane ...
      - Configuring RBAC rules ...
    * Verifying Kubernetes components...
      - Using image gcr.io/k8s-minikube/storage-provisioner:v5
    * Enabled addons: storage-provisioner, default-storageclass
    * Done! kubectl is now configured to use "minikube" cluster and "default" namespace by default
    ```

1. Install the unmanaged cluster components

    ```sh
    tanzu unmanaged-cluster create -e ~/.kube/config --cni=none
    ```

    * `~/.kube/config` is the location of the kubeconfig used to access the
      `minikube` cluster.
    * `--cni=none` is set since `minikube` already sets up a network for pods.

1. Now you can use the `tanzu` CLI to interact with the cluster.

    ```sh
    tanzu package list -A
    ```

## Disable CNI installation

To create a cluster **without** a CNI installed, run:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create --cni=none
```

This will skip CNI installation and prompt the following during the CNI
installation step.

```txt
🌐 Installing CNI
   No CNI installed: CNI was set to none.
```

The cluster creation will complete successfully. After that, you are free to
install a CNI into the cluster.

## Customize the distribution

Unmanaged clusters gather details on how to create a cluster from a Tanzu
Kubernetes Release (TKr) file. For each release of unmanaged clusters, a
[default TKr is
set](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/community-edition/blob/d0a8622e164c1e345686470b7bcce0c6be9c58f5/cli/cmd/plugin/unmanaged-cluster/tkr/tkr.go#L14-L16).

When creating clusters, you can point to a different TKr using the `--tkr` flag.
The TCE project keeps TKrs for unmanaged clusters at
`projects.registry.vmware.com/tce/tkr`. Using
[imgpkg](https://carvel.dev/imgpkg), you can query available TKrs using:

```sh
$ imgpkg tag list -i projects.registry.vmware.com/tce/tkr
Tags

Name
sha256-2fd337282cf17357c6329f441dc970ec900145faef9e2ec6122f98fa75d529c3.imgpkg
sha256-33f63314fb72ead645715f6ac85128c0fe0fd380d14f0a79eddba3dd361b73dd.imgpkg
sha256-ac6566268e0f113a4b91bab870a34353685e886f97e248633bb2c2fcf6490dc8.imgpkg
v1.21.5
v1.21.5-1
v1.21.5-2
v1.21.5-3
v1.22.2
```

To create a cluster with an alternative TKr, you can run:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create --tkr projects.registry.vmware.com/tce/tkr:v1.22.2
```

To customize a TKr, you can pull an existing one down using `imgpkg`:

```sh
$ imgpkg pull -i projects.registry.vmware.com/tce/tkr:v1.22.2 -o tkr
Pulling image 'projects.registry.vmware.com/tce/tkr@sha256:7c1a241dc57fe94f02be4dd6d7e4b29f159415417164abc4b5ab6bb10cf4cbaa'
Extracting layer 'sha256:e17e901811682a2c8c91c8865f3344a21fdf8f83f012de167c15d2ab06cc494a' (1/1)

Succeeded
```

You can then edit the above TKr in the `tkr/tkr-bom-v1.22.2.yaml`. After
modifying it, you may also wish to rename the YAML file. Once you have made your
modifications, you can repush it using:

```sh
imgpkg push -f ./tkr/tkr-bom-CUSTOM.yaml -i ${YOUR_REGISTRY}:${YOUR_TAG}
```

Once pushed, you can reference this repo using the `--tkr` flag.

## Exit codes

Unmanaged clusters provide meaningful exit codes.
These are useful when deploying `unmanaged-cluster` in automation or CI/CD.
To see the exit code of a process, execute `echo $?`.

The exit codes are defined as follows:

* 0  - Success.
* 1  - Configuration is invalid.
* 2  - Could not create local cluster directories.
* 3  - Unable to get TKR BOM.
* 4  - Could not render config.
* 5  - TKR BOM not parseable.
* 6  - Could not resolve kapp controller bundle.
* 7  - Unable to create cluster.
* 8  - Unable to use existing cluster (if provided).
* 9  - Could not install kapp controller to cluster.
* 10 - Could not install core package repo to cluster.
* 11 - Could not install additional package repo
* 12 - Could not install CNI package.
* 13 - Failed to merge kubeconfig and set context
* 14 - Could not install designated profile

## Limitations

This section details known limitations of unmanaged clusters.

### Can't Upgrade Kubernetes

By design, `unmanaged-clusters` do not lifecycle-manage Kubernetes. They are not
meant to be long-running with real workloads. To change Kubernetes versions,
delete the existing cluster and create a new cluster with a different
configuration.

### Deploying to Windows

`kind`, the default provider,
has several known limitations when deploying to Windows.
For example, deploying a [load balancer has networking considerations.](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/loadbalancer/)
Be sure to familiarize yourself with the [`kind` documentation](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/)
in order to [customize your unmanaged-cluster deployment](#custom-configuration) for your needs.

Commit message:

unmanaged-cluster merging kind configs
- Prefers configs given via the ProviderConfiguration field and than
  attempts to merge any other default or flag given values into that
  kind configuration.

Signed-off-by: John McBride <jmcbride@vmware.com>

docs/site/content/docs/ref-unmanaged-cluster.md, after:

# Unmanaged Clusters Reference

This is the reference documentation for the `unmanaged-cluster` plugin. If
this is your first time deploying an unmanaged cluster, see
[Getting Started with Unmanaged Clusters](getting-started-unmanaged/).

## Command aliases

As a Tanzu CLI plugin, unmanaged clusters can be interacted with using `tanzu
unmanaged-cluster`. `uc`, `um`, and `unmanaged` are all valid aliases for the
command. This means the following commands equate to the same:

* `tanzu unmanaged-cluster create hello`
* `tanzu uc create hello`
* `tanzu um create hello`
* `tanzu unmanaged create hello`

## Creating clusters

`create` is used to create a new cluster. By default, it:

1. Installs a cluster using the `kind` provider.
1. Installs `kapp-controller`.
1. Installs a core package repository.
1. Installs a user-managed package repository.
1. Installs a CNI package.
    * defaults to `calico`.
1. Sets your kubeconfig context to the newly created cluster.

To create a cluster, run:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create ${CLUSTER_NAME}
```

## Using a different cluster provider

`create` supports the `--provider` flag or `Provider` config option
which sets the cluster bootstrapping provider.

The following providers are supported:

* `kind`: _Default provider._ A tool for running local Kubernetes clusters using Docker container “nodes”. [Documentation site.](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/)
* `minikube`: Local Kubernetes, focusing on making it easy to learn and develop for Kubernetes. Supports ontainer and virtual machine managers. [Documentation site.](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/)

## Deploy multi-node clusters

`create` supports `--control-plane-node-count`
and `--worker-node-count` to create multi-node clusters in a supported provider.

_Note:_ The `kind` provider does _not_ support deploying multiple control planes
with no worker nodes. For this type of granular configuration, see [Customize cluster provider.](#customize-cluster-provider)

_Note:_ The `minikube` provider does _not_ support deploying multiple control planes.

The following example deploys 5 total nodes
using the default `kind` provider

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create --control-plane-node-count 2 --worker-node-count 3
```

## Install additional package repository

`create` supports `--additional-repo` to automatically install package repositories
during cluster bootstrapping. This flag may be specified multiple times to install multiple repositories.
Values should be valid registry URLs that point to package repositories.
If this config option is provided, the default package repository will not be installed.

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create --additional-repo my-repo.registry-url.com/path
```

## Installing Profiles

_Warning:_ Profiles is an experimental feature. Use with caution.

When creating a cluster, designate `--profile` to automatically install
a package from an installed package repository.
The name of the profile must be the fully qualified name of the package in the package repository,
or a prefix of the package name in the package repository.

So, for example, to install `fluent-bit` during cluster creation,
run the following

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create my-cluster --profile fluent-bit
```

By default, the _latest_ package is installed
and all default values are used for the package.

To designate a profile version or profile values yaml file, use a profile mapping.
The expected format is:

```text
profile-name:profile-version:profile-config-file
```

This is used with the `--profile` flag:

```sh
tanzu unmanged-cluster create --profile fluent-bit:1.7.5:path-to-my-config.yaml
```

Both `profile-version` and `profile-config-file` are optional.

To install the most recent package, use the keyword `latest` or an empty string for the profile version
to select the most recent semantic version for the specified package. Example:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create my-cluster --profile external-dns:latest:path-to-my-config.yaml
```

For further information on [packages and configuring packages, read the documentation.](package-management)

## Installing multiple Profiles

_Warning:_ Profiles is an experimental feature. Use with caution.

Profile mappings may be specified multiple times via multiple `--profile` flags
or within a singule profile flag, delimitted by a comma:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create --profile fluent-bit:1.7.5,external-dns::path-to-my-config.yaml
```

The above will install the fluent-bit package at version 1.7.5 with no values yaml file
and the external-dns package at the latest version with a values yaml file.

Finally, for the most granularity and configurability,
you may configure all profile options via a unmanaged cluster config file.
The following is a truncated config file and can be [generated via `tanzu unmanaged-cluster config`](#custom-configuration)
with a `--profile` flag and profile mappings:

```yaml
Profiles:
- name: fluent-bit.community.tanzu.vmware.com
- name: external-dns.community.tanzu.vmware.com
  config: external-values.yaml
  version: 0.10.0
- name: app-toolkit.community.tanzu.vmware.com
  config: values.yaml
```

Using the above config file:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create -f my-config
```

Will create a cluster with three profiles:

* fluent-bit at the latest version with default values
* external-dns at version 0.10.0 with the default values
* app-toolkit at the latest version configured with the provided values

_Note:_ The above examples may fail to install the packages without proper values provided.
Always read the documentation for the specific package and profile you are installing.

## Listing clusters

`list` or `ls` is used to list all known clusters. To list known clusters, run:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster list
```

## Deleting clusters

`delete` or `rm` is used to delete a cluster. It will:

1. Attempt to delete the cluster based on the provider.
    * by default, clusters use `kind`, this will delete the `kind` cluster.
1. Attempt to remove the cluster's directory.
    * located at `~/.config/tanzu/tkg/unmanaged/${CLUSTER_NAME}/`.

To delete a cluster, run:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster delete ${CLUSTER_NAME}
```

## Custom configuration

`configure`, `config`, or `conf` creates a configuration file for cluster creation:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster configure ${CLUSTER_NAME}
```

This will create a configuration file, which you can modify to change how
clusters are created. When creating a cluster, the `-f` flag can be used to
specify this configuration file.

Along with a configuration file, `unmanaged-cluster` respects settings from
other settings such as flags. The order in which settings are resolved is:

1. Defaults (lowest precedence)
1. Configuration File
1. Environment Variables
1. Flags (highest precedence)

As a result of rendering the above, a final configuration file is persisted to:

`~/.config/tanzu/tkg/unmanaged/${CLUSTER_NAME}/config.yaml`

Reviewing this file can help in troubleshooting issues during cluster
bootstrapping.

## Customize cluster provider

Use the `ProviderConfiguration` field in the configuration file
to give provider specific and granular customizations.
Note that some other provider specific configs may be ignored
when `ProviderConfiguration` is used.

* Kind provider: Use the `rawKindConfig` field
  to enter an entire [`kind` configuration file](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/configuration/)
  or partial config snippt to be used when bootstrapping.
  During bootstrapping, the default kind bootstrapping options are merged with any user provided `rawKindConfig`
  but the values in `rawKindConfig` take the highest precedence.
  For example, the following partial kind config
  deploys a control plane with port mappings and 2 worker nodes,
  all using the default VMware hosted kind node images.

  ```yaml
  ClusterName: my-kind-cluster
  KubeconfigPath: ""
  ExistingClusterKubeconfig: ""
  NodeImage: ""
  Provider: kind
  ProviderConfiguration:
    rawKindConfig: |
      nodes:
      - role: control-plane
        extraPortMappings:
        - containerPort: 888
          hostPort: 888
          listenAddress: "127.0.0.1"
          protocol: TCP
        - role: worker
        - role: worker
  Cni: calico
  CniConfiguration: {}
  PodCidr: 10.244.0.0/16
  ServiceCidr: 10.96.0.0/16
  TkrLocation: ""
  AdditionalPackageRepos: []
  PortsToForward: []
  SkipPreflight: false
  ControlPlaneNodeCount: "1"
  WorkerNodeCount: "0"
  Profiles: []
  ```

* Minikube provider:
  * `driver` - Optional: Sets the driver to run Kubernetes in. [Selecting a driver depends on your operating system.](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/drivers/)
  * `containerRuntime` - Optional: Sets the container runtime to use use. Valid options: docker, cri-o, containerd, auto.
  * `rawMinikubeArgs` - Optional: The raw flags and arguments to pass to the minikube binary. _Warning:_ use with caution. Flags and arguments provided through this method are not checked or validated by the unmanaged-cluster plugin.

  Example using config options:

  ```yaml
  ClusterName: my-minikube-cluster
  KubeconfigPath: ""
  ExistingClusterKubeconfig: ""
  NodeImage: ""
  Provider: minikube
  ProviderConfiguration:
    driver: vmware
    container-runtime: auto
    rawMinikubeArgs: --disk-size 30000mb
  Cni: calico
  CniConfiguration: {}
  PodCidr: 10.244.0.0/16
  ServiceCidr: 10.96.0.0/16
  TkrLocation: ""
  AdditionalPackageRepos: []
  PortsToForward: []
  SkipPreflight: false
  ControlPlaneNodeCount: "1"
  WorkerNodeCount: "0"
  Profiles: []
  ```

## Install to existing cluster

If you wish to install the Tanzu components, such as `kapp-controller` and the
package repositories into an **existing** cluster, you can do so with the
`--existing-cluster-kubeconfig`/`e` flags or `existingClusterKubeconfig`
configuration field. The following example demonstrates installing into an
existing [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io) cluster.

1. Create a `minikube` cluster.

    ```sh
    $ minikube start

    * minikube v1.24.0 on Arch rolling
    * Automatically selected the docker driver. Other choices: kvm2, ssh
    * Starting control plane node minikube in cluster minikube
    * Pulling base image ...

    * Preparing Kubernetes v1.22.3 on Docker 20.10.8 ...
      - Generating certificates and keys ...
      - Booting up control plane ...
      - Configuring RBAC rules ...
    * Verifying Kubernetes components...
      - Using image gcr.io/k8s-minikube/storage-provisioner:v5
    * Enabled addons: storage-provisioner, default-storageclass
    * Done! kubectl is now configured to use "minikube" cluster and "default" namespace by default
    ```

1. Install the unmanaged cluster components

    ```sh
    tanzu unmanaged-cluster create -e ~/.kube/config --cni=none
    ```

    * `~/.kube/config` is the location of the kubeconfig used to access the
      `minikube` cluster.
    * `--cni=none` is set since `minikube` already sets up a network for pods.

1. Now you can use the `tanzu` CLI to interact with the cluster.

    ```sh
    tanzu package list -A
    ```

## Disable CNI installation

To create a cluster **without** a CNI installed, run:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create --cni=none
```

This will skip CNI installation and prompt the following during the CNI
installation step.

```txt
🌐 Installing CNI
   No CNI installed: CNI was set to none.
```

The cluster creation will complete successfully. After that, you are free to
install a CNI into the cluster.

## Customize the distribution

Unmanaged clusters gather details on how to create a cluster from a Tanzu
Kubernetes Release (TKr) file. For each release of unmanaged clusters, a
[default TKr is
set](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/community-edition/blob/d0a8622e164c1e345686470b7bcce0c6be9c58f5/cli/cmd/plugin/unmanaged-cluster/tkr/tkr.go#L14-L16).

When creating clusters, you can point to a different TKr using the `--tkr` flag.
The TCE project keeps TKrs for unmanaged clusters at
`projects.registry.vmware.com/tce/tkr`. Using
[imgpkg](https://carvel.dev/imgpkg), you can query available TKrs using:

```sh
$ imgpkg tag list -i projects.registry.vmware.com/tce/tkr
Tags

Name
sha256-2fd337282cf17357c6329f441dc970ec900145faef9e2ec6122f98fa75d529c3.imgpkg
sha256-33f63314fb72ead645715f6ac85128c0fe0fd380d14f0a79eddba3dd361b73dd.imgpkg
sha256-ac6566268e0f113a4b91bab870a34353685e886f97e248633bb2c2fcf6490dc8.imgpkg
v1.21.5
v1.21.5-1
v1.21.5-2
v1.21.5-3
v1.22.2
```

To create a cluster with an alternative TKr, you can run:

```sh
tanzu unmanaged-cluster create --tkr projects.registry.vmware.com/tce/tkr:v1.22.2
```

To customize a TKr, you can pull an existing one down using `imgpkg`:

```sh
$ imgpkg pull -i projects.registry.vmware.com/tce/tkr:v1.22.2 -o tkr
Pulling image 'projects.registry.vmware.com/tce/tkr@sha256:7c1a241dc57fe94f02be4dd6d7e4b29f159415417164abc4b5ab6bb10cf4cbaa'
Extracting layer 'sha256:e17e901811682a2c8c91c8865f3344a21fdf8f83f012de167c15d2ab06cc494a' (1/1)

Succeeded
```

You can then edit the above TKr in the `tkr/tkr-bom-v1.22.2.yaml`. After
modifying it, you may also wish to rename the YAML file. Once you have made your
modifications, you can repush it using:

```sh
imgpkg push -f ./tkr/tkr-bom-CUSTOM.yaml -i ${YOUR_REGISTRY}:${YOUR_TAG}
```

Once pushed, you can reference this repo using the `--tkr` flag.

## Exit codes

Unmanaged clusters provide meaningful exit codes.
These are useful when deploying `unmanaged-cluster` in automation or CI/CD.
To see the exit code of a process, execute `echo $?`.

The exit codes are defined as follows:

* 0  - Success.
* 1  - Configuration is invalid.
* 2  - Could not create local cluster directories.
* 3  - Unable to get TKR BOM.
* 4  - Could not render config.
* 5  - TKR BOM not parseable.
* 6  - Could not resolve kapp controller bundle.
* 7  - Unable to create cluster.
* 8  - Unable to use existing cluster (if provided).
* 9  - Could not install kapp controller to cluster.
* 10 - Could not install core package repo to cluster.
* 11 - Could not install additional package repo
* 12 - Could not install CNI package.
* 13 - Failed to merge kubeconfig and set context
* 14 - Could not install designated profile

## Limitations

This section details known limitations of unmanaged clusters.

### Can't Upgrade Kubernetes

By design, `unmanaged-clusters` do not lifecycle-manage Kubernetes. They are not
meant to be long-running with real workloads. To change Kubernetes versions,
delete the existing cluster and create a new cluster with a different
configuration.

### Deploying to Windows

`kind`, the default provider,
has several known limitations when deploying to Windows.
For example, deploying a [load balancer has networking considerations.](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/loadbalancer/)
Be sure to familiarize yourself with the [`kind` documentation](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/)
in order to [customize your unmanaged-cluster deployment](#custom-configuration) for your needs.
